today i am going to build a machine learning web app from scratch using real world data from stackoverflow developer survey. 
1 analyze/clean
2 cretae and train model with sickit learn
3 build web app with streamlit lib

final output
salary prediction app based on info entered by the user:
1 country
2 education level 
3 years of experience

explore part :
pie chart (number of data for diff countries)
histogram(y based on diff countries)
line plot(y based on experience)

data:survey_results_public.csv (about 89 thousandish records)

execution
1)created a folder(salary_prediction_project)he file for this article, the zipped folder containng survey data downloaded from "https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey"
2)opened terminal and created a python virtual env inside the folder i creatd. 
conda create --name salary_prediction
then i activate the env:conda activate salary_prediction
then pip install streamlit
then pip install numpy pandas
then pip install matplotlib
then pip install scikit learn
pip install ipython,ipkernel,jupyter

now we need to install a kernal for this virtual environment:
ipython kernel install --user --name=salarypred

then:jupyter notebook





🚀 Exciting News! I've just completed building a machine learning web app from scratch using real-world data from the Stack Overflow Developer Survey, inspired by the fantastic tutorial by Patrick Loeber! 🌐📊

Here's what I've accomplished:

Analyzed and Cleaned Data: I meticulously explored and cleaned the Stack Overflow Developer Survey data, following the insightful tutorial by Patrick Loeber to ensure its accuracy and relevance for machine learning modeling.
Created and Trained Model with scikit-learn: Leveraging scikit-learn, I developed and trained a robust machine learning model capable of predicting salaries based on key factors such as country, education level, and years of experience.
Built Web App with Streamlit: Using the Streamlit library, as guided by Patrick Loeber's tutorial, I transformed my machine learning model into an interactive web application, providing users with an intuitive platform to input their information and receive accurate salary predictions in real-time.
The final output is a dynamic salary prediction app, enabling users to effortlessly input their:

Country
Education level
Years of experience
In the explore section of the app, users can visualize insightful data through:

Pie Chart: Displaying the distribution of data across different countries.
Histogram: Offering insights into salary distribution based on various countries.
Line Plot: Illustrating trends in salary based on years of experience.
I'm thrilled with the outcome of this project and excited to share it with the community. If you'd like to explore the app or have any feedback, I'd love to connect!

#DataScience #MachineLearning #Streamlit #DataAnalysis #PortfolioProjects #DataAnalytics #PythonProgramming #HRData #HRAnalytics #LinkedInNetworking #DataScientists #DataJobs

Let's continue making strides in the world of data science together! 🌟



